refactor: reorient `data_pipeline` readme to favor cloud (#207)
autokitteh/samples: data_pipeline/README.md

---
title: Parse a file in S3 and insert to database

> description: Automatically processes GPX files from S3 into a SQLite database, creating a seamless data pipeline from cloud storage to structured data.

Reviewer: Language nits:
1. You don't "process X _into_ Y"
2. "Seamless" is not a meaningful adjective when it comes to data pipelines, either all or none of them are, depending on your point of view
3. No full sentences inside table cells - remove "." at the end
4. Let's not use "automatically" etc. where brevity is needed - almost everything AK does is automatic

Author: > 1. You don't "process X into Y"

^ Don't understand the above

integrations: ["aws", "http", "sqlite3"]
categories: ["DevOps"]
---

> # Parse a file in S3 and insert to database

Reviewer: I know this is the same as the metadata title, and it's correct that they should be the same (although this title needs to be capitalized and the metadata title shouldn't be), but this looks overly complicated, plus "S3" is specific but "database" isn't... What do you think about something very simple but specific "ETL Pipeline From S3 to SQLite"?

Author: Done

> This project automates the process of parsing GPX files from an S3 bucket and inserting the extracted data into a SQLite database. It leverages AWS notifications to trigger a HTTP endpoint that downloads and processes GPX files, translating them into structured records stored in the database.

Reviewer: This is indeed better than before, but contains fluff/filler/AI-ish vocabulary, and feels convoluted at the end. Here's a more concise suggestion.

As for a/an before HTTP: see https://www.merriam-webster.com/grammar/is-it-a-or-an

```suggestion
This project downloads and parses GPX files from an S3 bucket and inserts the resulting structured records into a SQLite database. It leverages AWS notifications to trigger an HTTP endpoint when new GPX files are available.
```

## How It Works

1. Monitor S3 bucket for new GPX files

> 2. Trigger SNS to notify AutoKitteh HTTP endpoint

Reviewer: Nit: we don't trigger SNS, SNS triggers us

Author: Makes sense. How's that?

3. Extract file details from notification
4. Download GPX file from S3 bucket
5. Parse file contents into structured data

> 6. Store parsed records in SQLite database

Reviewer: Nit: more accurate when talking about relational DBs compared to generic storage: "Insert ... into" instead of "Store ... in"

Author: Done

## Cloud Usage

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > See the section [Detailed instructions](#detailed-instructions) for a more in depth explanation.

Reviewer: Where is this anchor/section?

Author: Good catch. That was old; I was trying something different at first.

1. Initialize your AWS connection
2. Configure your SNS topic and S3 bucket notifications to trigger on new GPX file uploads.
3. Deploy the project

## Trigger Workflow

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Ensure all connections (AWS, HTTP, SQLite) are initialized; otherwise, the workflow will raise a `ConnectionInitError`.

Reviewer: HTTP is no longer a connection, just a trigger

Author: Done

> To trigger the workflow, upload a new GPX file to the S3bucket (you can use `hike.gpx` from here).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To trigger the workflow, upload a new GPX file to the S3 bucket (you can use `hike.gpx` from here).
```

[2024-06-27 14:15:45.002167665 +0000 UTC] [stdout] getting ak-miki-hikes/hike11.gpx
[2024-06-27 14:15:46.075361184 +0000 UTC] [stdout] inserted 358 records
```

## Self-Hosted Deployment

Follow [these detailed instructions](https://docs.autokitteh.com/get_started/deployment) to deploy the project on a self-hosted server.

## Known Limitations

> - The current parsing mechanism is tailored for GPX files and might need adjustments for other formats.
> - Error handling is basic and may require enhancement for production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The current parsing mechanism is tailored for GPX files and might need adjustments for other formats
- Error handling is basic and may require enhancement for production environments
```

## AWS Setup

> Make sure you have AWS keys with read access to the S3 bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have AWS keys with read access to the S3 bucket.

```

See [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for more information on how to create AWS keys.

### Configuring S3 Bucket for Notifications

> [!WARNING]
> This project assumes that the AutoKitteh server is already configured with
> [HTTP tunneling](https://docs.autokitteh.com/config/http_tunneling/).

- Create an S3 bucket, or using an existing one
- [Create SNS topic](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-create-topic.html)
- [Give the bucket permission to publish to the SNS topic](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ways-to-add-notification-config-to-bucket.html#step1-create-sns-topic-for-notification)
- Create a subscription to the SNS topic
  - Select `HTTPS` protocol
  - In the `Endpoint`, write the domain from ngrok and the HTTP trigger path.
    For example `https://e7c499cae8d9.ngrok.app/<webhook-slug>`
- Send a confirmation to the subscription.
  This will trigger the workflow and you should be able to see the subscription URL in the `ak` logs.

Visit the URL to confirm the subscription.

> ### Configure The S3 Bucket to Send Notifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure the S3 Bucket to Send Notifications
```

> ### Create The Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create the Database
```
